Good morning.
It's great to see you all here
on a Friday post-Beer Bash.
My name is Brent Ramerth and
I work on natural language
processing and internationalization.
And today I'd like to talk to you about
how to make a great international app.
So you're all here at
WWDC because you want to make
great apps for iOS and Mac OS X.
Well, part of making a great app is
making an app that is accessible
to as many people as possible.
And there's no greater audience
for your app out there than
the international market.
There is a wealth of potential
customers for your app in
countries like China and Japan,
in regions like Europe and
the Middle East.
And in order to take
advantage of these markets,
we want you to be familiar with the
basic concepts of internationalization.
So that's what we're
going to talk about today.
Now, if you've never made an app for
a country outside of your own,
this talk is definitely for you.
We're going to cover the fundamental
concepts of internationalization,
the APIs that you'll use when
making an international app,
and we're going to get you started.
So if you've already got
some experience in this,
we're also going to have
stuff for you today.
If you've already done some
internationalization or you've
already done localization,
that's great.
We're going to talk today about some
common mistakes or pitfalls in using
the APIs and how you can avoid those,
as well as look at some new APIs and
features for internationalization.
So let's get started.
Now, for the last six quarters,
the majority of Apple's revenue has
come from international sources.
In Q2 of 2011 alone,
59% of revenue originated from
outside the United States.
And, so,
there is a lot of potential market
for your app in these countries.
The fastest growing market for
Apple products is not the United States.
It's China.
So just to give you an idea of all
the different countries out there,
there's a lot of different countries
you can be shipping your app in.
And most of these,
outside of the United States,
most of these customers are
not native English speakers.
They use different writing systems,
different date and time formats,
different calendars, just to name a few.
So here we see a map of all the
countries that are currently
shipping iPhone as of May.
As you can see, there's a lot of
coverage in the Americas,
great coverage of Europe.
Asia and Africa are covered.
And a lot of coverage in
the Middle East and the
largest markets in the world,
China and India.
So the point here is that as a developer,
you don't have to be constrained to
shipping your app in your own country.
You can ship your app in China if
you're an American developer.
If you're a Chinese developer,
you can make your app
for the United States,
Russia or Brazil,
just to give you some examples.
As far as localization goes, on iOS,
you can make a localized app
for any of these languages.
These are the system UI languages.
And on Mac OS X,
you're not constrained to this list.
You can make your app
localized in any language.
Now, localization is not going to be the
primary focus for today's presentation,
but I just want to give you
an idea of the potential scope
for the languages of your app.
Now, before we get too far,
let's clarify what is
the difference between
internationalization and localization.
These concepts are sometimes confused.
Now, internationalization, simply put,
is designing your app for
international compatibility.
This includes text content.
We want your apps to be
able to handle input,
output and to be able to process text
in any language and in any script.
Furthermore,
your apps should be able to handle
different date and time formats,
different number formats and
calendars and time zones which
give us no end of trouble.
Now, internationalization is something
that you as a developer have to do.
You have to adopt the APIs,
make the code changes.
Localization, on the other hand,
another piece of this puzzle is
something that you can ship out
and get experts to help you with.
Localization is translation of your
app's user interface and resources.
So once you have extracted the strings
from your app and the resources,
then you can ship them off
to a language expert and they
will help you translate them.
So about internationalization,
maybe you've heard that making
international apps is hard and there's
a lot of different languages out there,
a lot of different formats and, you know,
why would you want to do that
on top of all the other things
you've got to do with your app?
Making new features and fixing bugs,
all that kind of stuff.
Well,
the point is internationalization doesn't
have to be hard and if you follow the
APIs and the guidelines we're going
to set forth in today's presentation,
it's easy.
We're going to be able to make one app
for all locales and that app will be
able to support content in any language.
So here we see pages and
it is localized in English.
The content is in a variety of
languages including Chinese,
Thai and Russian.
So that's the kind of
thing you'll be able to do.
For today's talk, first off,
we're going to talk about APIs.
We're going to look at the
APIs that you'll use to develop an
international application and some
guidelines for use of those APIs.
We're then going to look at some
international user interfaces and
how they pertain to testing and what
your users are going to be seeing.
And finally,
we will look at some new APIs and
features in the international space.
So first,
let's look at international APIs.
Now, many of these APIs are probably
familiar to you already if
you're a Cocoa developer.
APIs such as NSString, NSLocal.
Today we're going to look at
these APIs as they pertain
to internationalization.
How to use them appropriately when
developing an international app.
First of, let's talk about locales.
Now,
locales are going to drive all of the
other topics that we will cover today.
A locale is fundamentally
an encapsulation of regional
formatting standards,
which are specific to a language
and usually a region in which
that language is spoken.
So, for example, US English is a locale,
which corresponds to properties
such as does not use metric system,
separates groups of numbers with commas,
et cetera.
And so these locale objects
are going to drive a lot of the
APIs that we're going to use.
They're going to be used
to localize UI controls,
etc.
And we're going to use the
NSLocale API to handle these.
Now sometimes locales are
confused with localization.
These are two separate concepts.
Locales represent the formatting
standards for your app.
How does it handle dates and times?
What is the calendar?
What is the currency?
The localization is the UI language.
How are the strings localized?
What is the language of the app?
Now, it's often the case that
these two correspond,
but it's not necessary that they do.
It is perfectly legitimate to have
your app be localized in English and
have locale set to Japanese.
You'll see English UI strings
and your dates and times
will be shown in Japanese.
So let's take a look at
what that would look like.
On the left, we have iCal.
And it is localized in English.
You have an English keyboard
up and English UI strings.
The dates and times are
in the standard U.S.
English format.
And using 12-hour time.
Here we've set the locale
to be Japanese and now
the dates are in Japanese.
However, the localization of
the app didn't change.
So you can mix and match these two.
Now that we've seen what
a locale looks like,
how do we actually access them?
There are two ways.
There's a way that you can get a
dynamic locale object which will update
as the user changes their locale.
And that is done with auto
updating current locale.
There is also a way to get
a locale as a static object.
And there are three
different ways to do that.
First off,
you're probably going to want to
use the current locale which is
the user's settings for formatting.
Whenever you're doing UI visible things,
you always want to use
the current locale.
You can also create an arbitrary locale
using init with locale identifier.
You might use this if you were, say,
trying to display a calendar
from a different locale.
And finally, there is the system locale.
The system locale has limited uses.
It's primarily used for parsing and
formatting fixed format expressions,
and we'll get into that a little
bit later in the presentation.
So now that we have locale objects,
we can do a variety of things with it.
First off, let's say you're making an app
in which you want to present
measurements to the user.
Well, you probably want to present these
measurements in the measurement
system that the user is familiar with.
So we can use the NSLocale as
a dictionary and pull out
the key associated with
NSLocale uses metric system.
And that will tell us whether the
current locale uses metric system.
Similarly,
we can access the current currency code.
Let's say you're making an app which
needs to display currency information.
We can do the currency conversion,
or you want to do currency conversion,
so you need to know what
the currency code is.
And so we pull out the currency
code from the locale like so.
Now, let's say you want to present
a quotation in your UI.
Well, quotation marks will vary
from locale to locale.
Different locales use different symbols.
So we want to create a
localized quotation string.
And again we use locale.
We can pull out the begin
quotation mark like so.
And the end quotation mark.
Create a formatted string with those two.
And now you see this will do the right
thing in all the different locales.
For China,
it will give you double quotes.
For Korea, single quotes.
And for Japan, the brackets.
Now throughout today's presentation
we're going to talk about some
common mistakes and pitfalls that
we see in using international APIs.
First off for NSLocale,
it is commonly thought that you
can access the UI language using
locale but as we saw in previous
examples that's not the case.
You can have those vary independently.
So it's not a good idea to use
NSLocale language code in order
to access the UI language.
Instead you can use the NSBundle API.
NSBundle is your resource for accessing
all of your localized resources.
There is a preferred localizations method
from the main bundle which gives you a
list of the user's preferred UI languages
and the item at index 0 in that list
will be the preferred UI localization.
visualization.
Also, system locale is commonly
confused with current locale.
It's important to always use current
locale when you're doing UI formatting.
System locale is a static locale and
it's going to be used for formatting
and parsing fixed expressions.
So now I'd like to show you what
this looks like in the UI and
how you configure these various
settings in the Mac OS X and iOS.
So let's go to the demo machine.
So here I have System Preferences and
we're going to go into Language and Text.
And the formats panel.
So here is where we would configure
the locale setting for the app.
This is typically going to be done
during installation for the user.
The user will configure
the locale appropriately.
But when testing, you might want to test
with different locales.
So here's how you would
go ahead and change that.
The current region here
shows what I have set.
It's currently set to United States.
And these are all the locales
that are associated with my
current UI language of English.
I can go ahead and show all of the
regions that are in the system.
And let's see what happens when I change
that to Chinese as spoken in China.
So now as you see,
we have a different format
for dates and times.
Up in the menu bar, we're now showing a
Chinese date and time.
And in our apps, our apps are showing
Chinese dates and times.
So this is going to be useful
when testing various locales.
For changing the language,
we can go to the Language window here.
And this list is freely orderable.
You can drag these into any language.
This will affect things
like font fallback.
So if you have some questions about that,
we can cover that in the lab.
But let's say we want to
change this to Korean.
So we're going to drag
Korean up to the top.
and restart the app.
So now you see the UI strings
of the app are in Korean.
However,
the date and time has stayed in Chinese.
Okay,
let's see what it looks like on iOS.
Okay, so similarly,
I'm going to go into settings.
And on the general panel,
let's go to International, Region Format.
So here you have all
of your region formats.
And we can change this to, say, Thai.
And now in the region format example,
we have different dates coming up and
that will show up throughout the UI.
So this will be useful when
testing and just to make sure
that your app is showing strings
that fit in the UI and so forth.
Okay, next let's talk about numbers.
Number formats will vary
widely from locale to locale.
First off,
not every locale uses ASCII digits.
In Arabic and Hindi,
non-ASCII digits are used in numbers.
The grouping separator and the decimal
points change from locale to locale.
For example, in French,
the space is used for separating
groups of numbers and the comma
is used for decimal point.
Different locales will use
different currency symbols,
of course, but also the order relative to
the number will change and the
spacing of the currency symbol.
And finally, percentage amounts.
In Arabic, a different percent symbol is
used for marking percentages.
So in order to handle formats
in a locale appropriate manner,
we want to use an API which is
aware of all these differences.
That API is NSNumberFormatter.
Now NSNumberFormatter gives
you a convenience method called
localized string from number,
which we can use to
create localized numbers.
And you just pass in NSNumber and
a style for that number and
it gives you the string.
If you need to do things like customizing
the number of digits in your number
or if you need to parse a number,
then you need to create your own
NSNumber format or configure it
appropriately and maintain it.
So here are some examples of
number formats that are built in.
The general format will be
good for general purposes.
You have the currency and
percentage and scientific,
which are self-explanatory.
And there's a spell out format,
which would be good for things
like doing text to speech,
if you need to send a
number to text to speech.
So the most common mistake in working
with number formatting is using
old C style functions like printf,
scanf, and string of format
to format your numbers.
Now these expressions like %d and %f,
those work fine when
you're doing ASCII digits,
but they're not going to handle
non-ASCII digits correctly.
So if we use code like
this in an Arabic locale,
we're not going to get the right result.
That's not the correct Arabic digits.
Instead, we should use NSNumberFormatter
and the LocalizeStringFromNumber
convenience method to format this number
appropriately using the decimal style.
And again, if you need to configure the
number of decimal points,
you can do that with an option
on the NSNumberFormatter.
Now we will get the right
result for both locales.
Another common mistake is in setting
constant pattern on the number formatter.
So in this example, we've set the format
string to include a dollar.
And so we are trying to do
a currency format string.
This might work fine
for the United States,
but in countries that do not
use the dollar sign like China,
it's not going to work.
So we don't want to eliminate that
information that the locale object
is providing for us by overriding
it with a constant pattern.
Instead,
we can use the simple built-in format,
the NSNumberFormatter currency style,
and that again will do the right thing
regardless of the user's current locale.
Now,
let's take a look at dates and times.
A lot of similar suggestions
apply to dates and times.
Dates and times start incorporating
more of the natural language strings.
So when we are formatting
a date for French,
we will see French strings in the date.
That would be today's
current date in France.
The calendar in use will
affect the date format string.
There are many calendars out there
besides the Gregorian calendar and the
Japanese calendar is just one of them.
This is what the Japanese style date
would look like in the Japanese calendar.
The digits in your date will
change as we saw earlier.
This is what it would look
like in Devanagari in Hindi.
The 12 versus 24 hour time
varies from locale to locale,
so we want to present the
right time string for that.
Finally, the order and the format
for dates will change.
So in Vietnamese,
the time string comes first,
and then the year, then the month,
then the day.
So when we are working with dates,
we want to display dates in
a locale-specific manner.
And to do that, we use NSDateFormatter.
Again,
NSDateFormatter has a convenience method
called localized string from date.
You can pass it in NSDate and the styles
for the date part and the time part.
If you don't want to have the
date part or the time part,
you can pass no style.
And if you need to do more
complex applications such as
parsing dates and times or setting
custom formats for your dates,
then you can configure a date
formatter and maintain it.
So here we see some of the
standard date and time formats.
This goes from most abbreviated
to least abbreviated.
And there's, of course,
the option for no style.
So these will be localized appropriately
depending on the user's current locale.
It may be the case that those built-in
formats don't meet your needs.
Let's say maybe you have a very
constrained UI field and you want
to just display the month and
the date of the current date.
To do so,
we want to make sure that you are
maintaining locale sensitivity and
not setting a constant pattern.
So we have a built-in function
called Date Format from template,
which will give you a properly
formatted string for the current locale.
So in this example,
we're going to pass in
the day and the month,
and we're going to get a format
string for the user's current locale.
And we're going to set the date formatter
to use this format string and then create
a localized string from the current date.
So now you can see this gives the right
result for both French and for Chinese.
In French it places the day name,
the day first and then the month.
And then for Chinese it
places the month digit,
then the character for month,
and then the days,
and then the character for day.
Again,
using static formats is a way that you
can get in trouble with these formatters.
So in this example,
we're setting a custom format which
puts the month and then the day and
then the year separated by hyphens.
And that's just not going to
work for the majority of the
formats out there in the world.
So it will work for English but not for,
say, Chinese.
Instead, we encourage you to use
localized string from date.
There is an easy way to do
this using short style for the
date and no style for the time.
And then we get the right string in the
UI for both English and for Chinese.
Now let's talk about a slightly
more complex example involving
dates and get time zones involved.
Let's say you're making an
application and it's pulling dates
off of the web in a fixed format,
something like this,
where year comes first, then the month,
then the day, and then hours,
minutes and seconds.
So we've got a date that we pulled
off the web and it has an inherent
time zone associated with it,
in this case UTC.
So this is roughly the current time.
Now we've parsed that date and we want to
show it in the UI in a localized fashion.
So we're going to display it
in the long style in the UI.
Now, when we're using this
app in San Francisco,
we've got the wrong time.
It's not 5:46 right now.
Also,
we're getting the wrong time in Beijing,
where it is definitely not 5:46 either,
because there's a 15
hour time difference.
So what did we forget to do?
What we need to do here is set the
time zone before we parse that date.
That time zone was in the UTC format,
but we interpreted it
as the local time zone.
Instead, we wanna make sure that the date
formatter is using the UTC time zone,
which you can get with time
zone for seconds from GMT-0.
And then,
We will get the right values
for the dates out and be able
to localize them appropriately.
Now there is still one thing
missing in this example,
and it's a little more subtle,
but it'll come up when you are
using a locale like Arabic.
Now as we saw in a previous slide,
Arabic does not use ASCII digits
for dates or times or numbers.
It uses Arabic style digits.
And so when we were parsing this string,
the date formatter was looking for those
Arabic digits and it doesn't find them.
So it's returning null.
And of course,
that's not the right answer.
This here is where we
want to use system locale.
So system locale is going to be constant
across all of your user systems and it
basically corresponds to POSIX settings
which allow you to parse and format
dates in a numeric POSIX style format.
So using system locale here will
override the user's current locale
setting and make the date formatter
look for the ASCII digits and allow it
to get the right value out so that we
can localize the string appropriately.
So next, let's look at some calendars.
As you're probably aware,
the Gregorian calendar is the
standard calendar across most
of the countries of the world.
However, there are countries that do
not use the Gregorian calendar,
such as Thailand.
And there are many calendars that
are in use for religious purposes,
for example.
So in the current Thai calendar,
the year is 2554.
The era of your calendar may change.
In the Japanese calendar,
the current era is Heisei
and this corresponds to the
current emperor's reign.
The number of months in a
year is sometimes variable.
You may have 12 or you may have
13 in some learner calendars,
or it could vary from year to year.
And also the number of days in a month.
So for example, in the Coptic calendar,
which is used in Egypt,
there is a five-day month which picks up
the rest of the days from the other 12,
30-day months,
which could be six months in a leap year.
And of course, February changes in
the Gregorian calendar.
The first day of the
week could be Saturday,
Sunday,
or Monday depending on your calendar.
And finally, not even the day on which
years change is static.
For example, in the Japanese calendar,
whenever a new emperor is coronated,
a new era and a new year begins.
So the new era,
the Heisei era began on January 8th.
So, in order to handle calendars in
a regionally appropriate way,
we want to use NSCalendar.
NSCalendar has all of these smarts baked
into it for handling all these calendars.
It's going to be able to give you
information such as the number of
days in a month and weeks in a year.
It will also be able to break down a
date for you and give you the components
like what is the current day of the
week or the current day of the year.
And it's very handy for
doing delta computations.
Let's say if you need to figure
out what the day is three days
from now in the current calendar.
Now, we had a talk about this at WWDC,
I believe, on Wednesday.
If you didn't catch that one,
you can catch it in the video Slater.
But there's some more details in
calendar processing at that talk.
So for Lion, we support a number of
non-Gregorian calendars,
including some lunar calendars like the
Islamic calendar and the Hebrew calendar.
And for iOS 5,
we support Gregorian offset calendars.
So this includes Thai, Buddhist,
and Japanese.
Now our final stop on the
internationalization tour today
will be strings and Unicode.
All of the operations like sorting,
searching, and tokenization are very
language and locale dependent.
The behaviors of these functions are
going to depend on the user's current
language and the language of the
text and the locale of the system.
So we want to use NSString APIs to
handle strings in a locale sensitive way.
Let's look at sorting
and comparison first.
So, for English, it's true that you could
just order a string using the
Unicode ordering of characters,
A through Z.
That's not always the case, though.
For example, in Hawaiian,
native Hawaiian letters sort
before non-native letters.
Also,
the significance of diacritics varies.
So, for example, in German,
the letter U with a
numlaut is sorted after Z.
But in English, we wouldn't put it there,
we'd put it with U.
So that's going to vary
from language to language.
Also, sorting might use
language-specific knowledge.
For example, in Chinese,
the pronunciation of characters
or the stroke count of characters
can be used in sorting.
So we definitely want to use
a sort which is localized,
which is going to do the right thing
regardless of the user's current locale.
So let's take a look at a
sorting example for Chinese.
Now, as you can imagine,
it's very difficult in Chinese to
find what you're looking for when
the characters are out of order.
And when you use a standard
compare like seen here,
the characters are going to be
sorted by the Unicode code point.
And that's not going to
help your Chinese users find
what they're looking for.
Instead, we want to use localized
standard compare.
This is a function that will
consider the collation ordering of
the locale for the user in sorting.
For the Chinese characters,
it's going to use the
pinyin pronunciation,
which is the romanization of Chinese,
and sort them alphabetically by pinyin.
So now your users can find the
characters they're looking for.
Some common errors in sorting
are using diacritics and case
sensitivity when sorting.
So this will get you into trouble
with languages such as French,
where diacritic ordering is
a more complicated process.
And some languages might sort
uppercase first and then lowercase.
So in general,
we don't want to normalize case
and diacritics when doing sorting.
Those are operations that we
should reserve for doing searching.
Let's talk about searching now.
For searching,
we want to use range of string.
Range of string is an API which will
allow you to search for substrings
in a locale specific manner.
The reason we would want to do that
is because in different languages,
case and diacritics
comparisons will vary.
So, for example, in Turkish,
what we consider the capital
letter I when lowercased,
that is the dotless I in Turkish.
And the lowercase I in English when
uppercased is a dotted capital I.
So these kind of comparisons
are locale specific.
Let's see what this would look like
doing a localized case-insensitive
search for the string "iki" in Turkish.
So we have a string and we want to
find the occurrence of "iki" in it.
We're going to do a search
within the range of the string.
And this search is going
to be case insensitive,
but in a locale sensitive manner
using the user's current locale.
So in a Turkish locale,
we will be able to find that
capital I with a dot for IKI.
Now if you're doing searching in your
app and you're writing an OS X app,
you might be interested in taking
advantage of NS Text Finder,
which is a new UI class in Lion,
which will give you that nice search
call-out bar for searching in your app.
Next,
I'd like to talk about tokenization.
Now there are a number of
situations in which you would want
to break up the text in your app.
Maybe you'd want to enumerate your
text by lines or by paragraphs,
possibly by sentences or words.
Now, for words,
this is a very locale sensitive
operation because of the different
writing systems out there that
may or may not use spacing.
Finally, there is the issue of iterating
through character sequences,
which we will talk about here.
We want to use this API for all
these different types of iteration,
including characters.
This is what it looks like,
enumerate substrings in range API.
It is a block API so it takes the
range that you are going to search in,
a enumeration option which
in this case is words,
and a block which will process these
substrings in a sequential fashion.
So here we are just going to log out the
substrings that we find in the string.
For Chinese,
it will do the right thing even though
Chinese is not written with spaces.
And of course for English,
uses whitespace and
punctuation tokenization.
Now, it is important to not assume
that whitespace and punctuation
are going to give you an adequate
segmentation for all kinds of text.
Because as we saw,
Japanese and Chinese text
don't use whitespace at all.
So we actually need to do a
linguistic analysis of the text to
analyze it for its word boundaries.
And so enumerate_substr_and_range
will give you that information.
For Thai,
whitespace separates phrases roughly,
so that's not going to give you
the correct word boundaries either.
So generally just stick with
enumerate_substr_and_range,
and you'll get the right results.
Now, I mentioned characters and that
you should be using enumerated
substrings and range for characters.
The reason for that is that not every
-- not every character in Unicode
can be expressed as a single Unichar.
It is not always the case that one user
visible glyph corresponds to one Unichar.
So, for example,
the capital letter E with an accent can
be stored as either one or two Unichars.
You can store it as a capital
letter E with an acute,
which is the combined form,
or a capital letter E plus
the combining acute accent.
It is true that there are methods
in Unicode to normalize a string.
There's the canonical mapping which
will compose it as best as it can.
This is not going to fix this
situation for us though because there
are many situations in which there
are combining character sequences
that have no pre-composed variants.
For example,
in Vietnamese with tones and all the
diacritics that are involved there.
So, and also,
any character outside of the 16-bit
range cannot be canonicalized.
So we don't want to rely
on canonical mappings.
Any character outside of the 16-bit
range is going to be stored as two
surrogate pairs in your NSString.
This is primarily used for
idiographic character extensions for
Chinese and some historical scripts,
but these are important for Chinese,
definitely.
So, for example,
this Chinese character is
beyond the 16-bit range,
U+272FE.
and it is stored as
two unitars in memory.
If we use a naive algorithm like
character at index to access
the characters of this string
we are going to retrieve broken
Unicode because these surrogate
pairs will not render correctly.
So whenever we're working with
characters it's important to use
enumerate substrings in range to access
those character ranges appropriately
and to render the string appropriately.
So now I'd like to talk about some
different UI topics that will come
up when you're developing your app
and some different UIs that your
international users will be using.
First off, let's look at input methods.
Now, for many alphabetic languages like
English and French and German,
it's sufficient to just put all
the keys on the keyboard for all
of the letters of the language.
But when you have a language
like Chinese or Japanese that has
tens of thousands of characters,
that's simply not possible.
And so we use input methods to input
complex scripts to use a romanization,
say, and turn that into the
appropriate characters.
An input method may generate single
or multiple characters depending on
the language of the input method.
So for example,
here is what input looks like in Chinese.
Now we have pinnion here,
which is the romanization of Chinese.
And we are converting that
into Chinese characters.
Now the pinnion here is in a
state which we call marked.
It has the underline, meaning that it has
not been converted yet.
So once the user has chosen a
candidate in that candidate bar,
then it's going to be committed.
It's going to be turned
into the Chinese text,
and the marked text is replaced.
So when you are working in UIs,
it's important to wait until the
marked text has been committed
before you start to process the text.
Because in this example,
the user is trying to search for the word
"Apple." And they've written the pinion,
but they haven't converted it yet.
So if you go off and start
searching on the pinion,
it's not going to do the right thing.
Instead,
wait until the candidate is converted,
and then we can do the search.
The way to do that is to identify
the marked text range and there's
a couple of different ways to do
that depending on your platform.
On iOS there's the
UI Text Input Protocol which
gives you a marked text range.
NS Text Input Client Protocol will
also give you has marked
text and a marked range.
And a couple of other things
to note about input methods.
On iOS, we put the candidate
bar above the keyboard.
So if your app has content behind there,
your app needs to be resilient
to changes in the keyboard size
so that the candidate bar is not
obscuring important information.
On OS X, it's important to avoid
intercepting key events by,
say, overwriting key down.
There are ways to do this
on NSTextView that will
not break input methods.
So it's important not to intercept
those methods because input
methods rely on space and enter.
So let's take a look at how you
would bring up input methods.
And I'm going to show you that on iOS.
Okay, so here we have the general panel.
This time I want to go into keyboards.
And I'm going to turn on
some international keyboards.
So if you've never added a new
keyboard to your iOS device,
now's the time to learn.
Let's say we want to
add the pinion keyboard.
Now if I go into notes,
Let's bring that back down.
Now you see a new glow
button has come up.
And this is going to allow us to
change between different keyboards.
And so now we have the Chinese pinyin
keyboard up and the candidate
bar appears above the keyboard.
So when I type Chinese in pinyin,
we have the candidates showing up.
And there's a variety of different
interactions with that candidate bar.
So it's good when developing your
app just to check that the candidate
bar is working properly in your app
and that your app's content is not
obscured and that sort of thing.
You can also use this to try
inputting Chinese text and
test your app with Chinese.
So now I converted and
that's Chinese text input.
Okay, so a couple more topics around
international user interfaces.
First off, let's look at text layout.
Now if you're handling
Arabic and Hebrew text,
Arabic and Hebrew are traditionally
written from right to left.
So these scripts can also have
left to right embeddings and the
order and directionality of the
text can get somewhat complicated.
So here I see this is what it
would look like on the screen.
Let's see what it would
look like in memory.
The first word of this sentence is on
the right and it flips around so that the
first character was actually on the left.
So, for the Latin text,
that comes in left to right.
So, that alignment is different
from the Arabic text.
So as you can see in this example,
the text that is visually adjacent
on the screen is not actually
always logically adjacent in memory.
You can have directionality
shifts in the middle of the text.
So if you are working on a text
view and you want to handle
bidirectional text appropriately,
it's important to not make
assumptions about the directionality
or the alignment of text.
Text needs to have its natural alignment.
So you can do this by setting the
NS paragraph style to natural alignment,
and that will make sure that the
text is right aligned for Arabic and
Hebrew and left aligned for
Latin languages and other scripts.
And there's also UI text input
protocol set base writing direction,
which will help you handle the
bidirectional text appropriately.
Along the lines of text layout,
new in Lion, we now have vertical text,
which is very popular in Japan.
It's a very traditional way
of writing Japanese text.
So you can now edit and display text in
a vertical fashion in your Cocoa apps.
And this is accomplished by setting the
layout orientation on your text view
to NS Text Layout Orientation Vertical.
The substitutions of the vertical
glyphs will happen by default.
It'll handle all the font
changes and all that for you.
And you want to use a horizontal
iBeam cursor in these scenarios
to match the style of the input.
And the final new feature is emoji.
So we now have these in
both iOS and in Lion.
Previously emoji were only
available in Japan before
standardization into Unicode,
but now these are in Unicode.
So you can use them.
We have an emoji font
on both iOS and Lion.
And these characters are all in the
supplementary multilingual plane,
meaning they are beyond the
16-bit range of Unicode.
So all of those -- the comments about
Chinese characters and iterating
through characters with ranges
definitely apply to emoji here.
So for more details on emoji,
please see the Unicode 6.0 specification,
and that will give you all
the information you need.
To wrap up today,
the important message is even
if you don't remember all the
particular examples of all the
different formats out there,
the key is to use foundation APIs and
use the standard UI widgets and
they're going to do the right thing
for you in a locale-sensitive manner.
Test your app in situations
that expose different languages,
different locales,
and make sure that your UI is
rendering appropriately.
If you're using the built-in foundation
APIs and the built-in widgets,
then things are going to
work properly for you.
So with that,
I'd like to refer you to some
of these related sessions.
These have all actually passed already,
but you can catch them on the videos.
So thank you very much.